---
title: "Why I am Learning Nomad in Public"
date: 2026-07-01
draft: false
showComments: true
tags: ["nomad", "distributed-systems", "learning-in-public"]
---

I have been thinking about starting this blog for a while now.
Not just any blog. I just love software development. And in
particular, I am intrigued by distributed systems.

What I want to learn is orchestration systems. This is where currently
there is a monoculture. One software project that rules them all -
Kubernetes. But Kubernetes has a reputation of being too large, too
complex. When I company adopts Kubernetes, it has to dedicate a whole
team just to manage it. To me, that defeats the purpose. Only large
companies can afford to have a Kubernetes team. What is a small
company or a startup supposed to do?

I want to learn another one, one that sits in that sweet spot - powerful,
but not too complex. It is **HashiCorp Nomad**.

## Why Nomad

- Doesn't just orchestrate containers, but also binaries and other
  workloads.
- Has a simple enough model that it should not be too hard to master.
- There are other reasons why Nomad is interesting, and I will explore
  and write about them in due time.

## Learning in public

I will be honest: I am a beginner. This blog is my attempt to learn
Nomad in public. I will go through tutorials, read documentation,
try things out. But I am a developer; I don't just want to learn how
to run Nomad, I want to learn how it works.

And I want to share my learning process with the world. No pretending
here; I am learning it from scratch. Maybe I will want to learn other
things in addition to Nomad, but whatever it will be, it will be
about software, about distributed systems and about open source.

Nomad [stopped](https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/commit/b3e30b1dfa185d9437a25830522da47b91f78816) being open source in August
2023. I believe in the power of open source, in community. So I want
to learn the [last version](https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/tree/a4cc76bd3e4c7d4f7e623721caa8a716b5a0151f) of Nomad that was still under MPL.

So here it is; I have to start somewhere. If you iwsh to participate, or
to comment; correct my mistakes, or suggest the next topic; teach me or
learn from me, feel free to leave a comment. I would like this to grow into a
community project, and not just my personal one.
